[Music]
I think we're all influenced by and
framed by our experiences.
One of my core competencies was
insecurity for a very long time.
>> I've heard you say you specialized in
insecurity.
>> When you have this real feeling of
sequential failure as a young person and
then you have any element of success, it
takes a long time to trust that.
But a lot of success is the randomness
of life. I'm pretty in touch with my
good fortune.
>> In the pedigree-driven world of finance,
success often comes down to who you
know, not what you know. I've always
been interested in people who took an
unconventional route and still ended up
at the top. In this case, the top of a
private markets giant that manages more
than $450 billion and indirectly employs
more than a million people around the
world.
[Music]
We're about to interview Harvey Schwarz,
the CEO of Carile.
I think he is one of the more
non-traditional paths of anyone I've met
in finance, but also he kind of has a
front seat to the way the entire
financial industry is changing. Less
than a decade ago, Schwarz was a
contender for the coveted CEO job at
Goldman Sachs, which ultimately went to
David Solomon. Schwarz retired and
dropped out of the public eye, but he
suddenly reemerged in 2023.
>> We do have breaking news at the moment.
We're now hearing that Carla Group has
chosen former Goldman Sachs Group
co-president Harvey Schwarz to be its
next chief executive officer. Carlo is
giving the new CEO Harvey Schwarz a shot
at a $180 million incentive.
>> Schwarz's move echoed a bigger trend in
finance. Power is flowing out of the
banks and the stock exchange and into
private markets.
>> What's happening in our business now,
private markets, is pretty extraordinary
in terms of the trajectory. Schwarz is
now hoping to take the storied firm to
the bleeding edge of financial
innovation.
Not everyone thinks he can do it,
but he's used to long odds.
[Laughter]
>> Where have you brought me?
>> Welcome to Morristown.
>> When was the last time you were back
here?
>> Oh, I don't know. Very long time. I
think maybe I came once
since 1982.
>> You're giving me nightmares already cuz
I know nightmares to have.
>> I was not cool in high school.
[Music]
>> We like kind of did some yearbook
searching for you to see what
>> I was the most unsuccessful wrestler
ever.
>> Did you do any clubs or anything?
>> No, I was a tragically bad high school
student.
[Music]
Schwarz had a tough childhood. His
mother was bipolar and his father was
diagnosed with schizophrenia.
They both had multiple suicide attempts.
Your parents had a really large impact
on you. I've only really heard you talk
about your experience growing up
recently.
>> Yeah. So, I didn't talk about it for a
long time because a different time
there's a real horrible stigma around
mental illness that exists today, which
is tragic. But most people won't talk
about mental illness. It's too
uncomfortable. It's not accepted in
society. Back then, there was no
acceptability. I mean, the rule in a
family was you could not talk about the
family. And then over time, really over
the past 10 years, I realized that if I
talked about it in open forums, it
seemed to somehow
be comforting to people that there was
even a willingness to have a discussion
about it. The way you describe it now,
you say my mother was diagnosed as what
is now known bipolar. Was it diagnosed
then? And you were so young.
>> Well,
>> did you know what was going on?
>> No, it was just how my sister and I
lived.
>> Um, and it was really sort of event to
event. So, hospitalization to
hospitalization. I celebrated on my 11th
birthday. I celebrated many birthdays in
hospitals.
His
mother passed away from cancer when he
was 14 years old, leaving him in the
care of his father.
>> My father in particular got really
consumed by his illness. And
unfortunately, he developed a delusion,
which was he thought everyone could read
his mind, so he wouldn't communicate.
So you and I have probably talked more
than my father and I ever did in my
entire life. So he wouldn't communicate.
I sort of did my own thing. I became a
bit of a feral kid.
Senior year was um really challenging
for me. I had missed some extraordinary
number of days by Christmas. I remember
something like 26 or 27 days of not
coming to school. And then as spring was
coming around, I realized there was a
very good chance I wouldn't graduate.
So, I came up with this idea that when I
turned 18, which was March of 82, I
could sign myself out of high school.
And I called up a friend in California.
And I said, "Hey, I have this plan. I'm
not going to get out of high school if I
don't do this." I said, "If I sign
myself out, if your parents will take me
in, I'll try and graduate in
California." And they said yes. And so,
I turned 18. I signed myself out and I
vividly remember back then I don't know
if it still exists today but you had to
get with it like an interim report card
before you go to the next school and so
I went to all the teachers every teacher
gave me an F. It was really really
>> I was very close to failing out of high
school.
>> I think that is failing out. So I got
all Fs.
>> The math teacher did say to me something
like I remember when he gave me my F. He
said I don't know Harvey. I have to give
you an F.
I don't know. I think there's maybe like
one day you could be like head of the
math department at MIT. So, he must have
seen something. I definitively was not
feeling anything positive. Um, it was
humiliating
and kind of really reinforced the
feeling that it was difficult to achieve
anything. Um, but I went to California
and all of a sudden I was wrapped in
with this loving family. They were
extraordinary to me.
I remember when I first showed up,
Rick's mom said to me, "Do you drink?"
And I said, "Yes." And she said, "Well,
if you drink and you're out, you don't
come back to this house." And in a
really weird way, at the time, it
actually felt quite good. I was like,
"Oh, that's a rule. I haven't had any
rules in many, many years since my mom
had passed away." There was a sense of
parental discipline. My friend was an
amazing student. He was best student,
best athlete, best looking. I was worst
student, worst athlete, not good-looking
at all, but he was a super good student.
We would go home and study every day.
I've never done that. And I got all A's
in California, and I actually graduated
in California, so it was a pretty um
unusual ride.
>> He returned to New Jersey, started
working hourly jobs and practicing
martial arts at a local gym.
>> So, you almost didn't get into college?
I didn't get into college.
>> Schwarz applied to the only college he
could afford,
>> Rutgers. The State University of New
Jersey with a reputation over two
centuries old as a topflight academic
institution
>> and he got rejected.
>> There was a woman that used to come to
this gym and she had gone to Ruckers and
she kept asking me, "Did you get in? Did
you get in? You get in?" And then I
said, "No, I didn't get in.
and she was so outraged she called
Ruckers and demanded that they review my
application. They told her if I write an
essay and I come down for an interview,
they would reconsider. And with Linda's
help, I got in.
>> So, you call her your angel these days?
>> She's one of my angels. Yeah. It's
almost impossible to believe that
Ruckers denied my application, gets a
random call from an alumni, and then
they changed the decision, and it
changed my whole life.
>> I think a lot of people from the outside
will look at the world of Wall Street
and say, "You probably had to go to a
tier one college."
>> Are you implying Ruckers is not tier
one?
>> Well, you know, I I
>> Ruckers is an amazing university, but I
understand what you're saying.
>> Yeah. this idea that if you didn't kind
of come from the top, you can't get to
the highest ranks in finance. And I
think that your story goes against that
in a lot of ways.
>> Ruckers framed me. I learned that I love
to learn when I was there. I immediately
loved economics. And that kind of pushed
me on my path, but there was no defined
path. It was very random walk.
[Music]
Can I start you out with something to
drink? It's
>> a black coffee for me.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah. Can I just get a I know Diet Coke.
>> Coke. Diet Pepsi.
>> What's your name?
>> Barb.
>> Barb. Yes. Ollie. I'm Harvey.
>> Nice to meet you.
>> You, too, Barb. Thanks.
>> Schwarz's career on Wall Street didn't
immediately take off. Okay. So, where we
are is about a half an hour away, I
think, from your first job.
>> It's probably about right. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Livingston, New Jersey. So, you
started a job in finance right out of
college. How did that happen?
>> Through a friend of a friend. I was
hired to this firm, JB Hanower. It was
mostly a municipal bond firm and they
taught you a little bit about bond math
and a lot about how to sell. And then
they gave you a phone and a desk. And
actually my first day was October 19th,
1987.
>> Today is Black Monday, the day the Dow
dropped more than 500 points. It
>> was a historic day that I've got here 12
years. I never saw any selling like this
before. Panic selling.
>> I sat there and I diligently cold
called. Thank you so much.
>> Absolutely.
>> Diligently cold called just the way they
taught us. And pretty much everybody
hung up on me.
>> Well, the market was absolutely
crashing.
>> It was a very bumpy start.
[Music]
When I was at JB Hanner, I wasn't making
enough of an income. So, I would work
weekends working at bars or I worked at
the back of a car wash for a while. I
owed everybody money. Then I tried to
start a small construction company. That
didn't work out. And that's when I
realized I was running out of money.
Yeah. Know that period was difficult.
But ultimately through a favor from a
friend, he uh got me an opportunity to
work in the back office at City Bank. I
got a job as a temp and that's kind of
when I found a place and it sort of all
turned around.
>> Schwarz became a credit analyst and then
a trader before getting his MBA at
Colombia in 1997. He started at Goldman
Sachs in the commodities unit and
rapidly rose through the ranks to the
seauite. When I got to Goldman, there
was a little bit of a oh Ruckers because
it was unconventional. But I think that
just informed me to be very open about
anyone. I could care less where anybody
went to school and I never actually had
a role for more than four or five years.
I think that was hugely defining for me.
I think that the formative years of all
those different experiences actually
helped give me sort of a broader base of
experience which actually ended up being
very valuable at some pivotal times. And
then I think like anything else, people
gave me opportunities. I was given the
opportunity to go from one one thing to
the next and I'm super grateful for
that.
>> You ended up becoming the CEO of
Carlile. Yeah. And it was a big surprise
because you went from this, you know,
iconic bank, the banking world to the
private asset industry.
>> Yeah.
>> And it felt to me one like a massive
change, but also kind of like the
direction the world was going.
>> Yeah. Well, it's definitely the world,
the direction world is going. I think
that clearly the trajectory for private
markets and the demand for private
capital is so significant in the world
that as a
opportunity at Carlile to be part of an
iconic firm to work with the founders in
a business that has
huge tailwinds and you can play a really
pivotal role driving that strategy and
and working with the team. It was uh it
was a unique opportunity that came
along. It was really too much to pass
up.
>> But by the time Schwarz joined, Carile
stock lagged behind its peers as the
smallest of the big five alternative
investment firms. When you came in, it
was your job to really realign the
company in a lot of ways. The whole
industry around you was kind of changing
too at the same time. These were private
equity firms and all of a sudden they
had to be something much bigger than
just a private equity firm. I think what
was happening at the time in the
industry is companies always will be
searching for the most efficient capital
structure and the most efficient source
of capital. What's happened over the
last 25 years? Public market capital has
declined as the alternative of choice.
You know all these stats, we've lost
like half the number of public companies
from 2000 to 2025. That is not happening
because the public markets don't
function well. They function very well,
but there's this other alternative to
stay private. And so, private capital
has just been a much more efficient
alternative for people who need capital.
>> One of the most transformative moments
for private credit was the great
financial crisis, which led to a massive
overhaul of the US banking system.
Before 2008, you could go to a bank even
for a risky loan. But in that year
alone, 25 banks failed. Over the next
four years, over 400 banks were
shuttered. The government intervened
with bailouts and legislation. The
DoddFrank Act tightened regulations and
increased capital requirements for
banks. The banks were forced to reduce
risk and lending. And that's when firms
from outside the traditional banking
system were able to swoop in and offer
loans to riskier businesses in exchange
for some high interest rates and hefty
fees. So, how do you explain that to
somebody who knows nothing about
finance? How do you explain the concept
of private capital?
>> I'm sitting at Gary New Jersey. I would
say that you run a company and you have
a menu from which you select the things
that make the most sense for you
>> in how you raise money.
>> Correct?
>> Like choosing what to eat for lunch,
raising capital comes with options. Say
you want to borrow money. You could go
with a traditional bank loan. It's the
burger. Standard and widely available.
But banks have strict regulations and
red tape. Junk bonds are another option
for risky borrowers. It's like choosing
the buffet. The company needs cash
quickly, so it puts out its debt for
investors to buy in the public market.
It's fast and easy to grab, but it
exposes investors to market swings. And
then there's private credit, the most
expensive dish on the menu. Wagyu steak
made to order. You skip banks and public
exchanges and negotiate a customized
deal directly with private lenders. It's
more flexible and stays behind closed
doors. Private credit is part of the
growing world of private markets.
[Music]
We knew that private credit was becoming
a bigger part of private markets and
that private markets are becoming a
bigger part of markets in general. And
while we understood that really until we
kind of like started to dig in and
telling the stories, I don't think that
I like quite felt in my bones the size
and scale of the transformation that's
happening in finance right now and also
just how untested it is.
[Music]
>> What surprised you?
>> The speed and scale, but also honestly
the fact that there's a whole new set of
companies that we have to like keep a
closer eye on. We're used to looking at
like large investment banks,
>> Goldman, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley,
>> right? Often the big name brand uh money
managers who run like the index funds
and mutual funds that a lot of us
>> Black Rockck
>> that a lot of us have in our retirement.
Um and then off to the side there were
these um private markets companies like
Apollo, Blackstone, Carlile that were
kind of doing something that I think to
most people seemed like a little bit
boutique. They were doing mostly what
you know is called like leverage
buyouts, things like that. They were
kind of the the pirate ships of finance.
They're moving closer and closer to the
center of finance now because they're
not only doing, you know, the leverage
buyouts, they're actually becoming
really important lenders in this
economy.
They're all in a relatively small
ecosystem of dealmakers.
>> A small ecosystem perhaps, but a mighty
one. Shrinking public markets have
spurred private markets into a $13
trillion powerhouse and private credit
has become one of Wall Street's hottest
tickets. Quiet deals, big yields,
billions flowing in. The industry
tripled in value from 517 billion in
assets in 2015 to over 1.7 trillion in
2025. And it's expected to increase by
50% in the next four years. But behind
the scenes, regulators and investors
worry about the risks.
>> There are still areas where record funds
are being raised. Private credit being
one of them.
>> Going into 2024, it got so big that
people are even worried about systemic
risks.
>> One of the biggest risks is interest
rates creeping up. The higher the
interest rates, the more strain on
borrowers balance sheets.
>> It is almost for sure recession or no
recession that the default rate is going
to rise. These loans are hard to value
and if the economy stumbles, defaults
could hit fast and hard.
>> You always worry about the financial
system. When things move away from
banking, are you creating a new shadow
banking system where a lot of the
activities that can cause problems in
banking are starting to happen outside
the system. We're a little worried about
the economy right now and I think these
are going to be exquisitly sensitive to
the economy and economic growth. So if
you're worried about a recession, um I
think it would be normal to have some
questions about how uh these investments
are going to do,
>> especially because we haven't really
seen it at this scale.
>> When things get bigger and then they
become more consolidated, you always
wonder what's going on under the hood
there. Banks are lenders to a lot of
these private credit firms. It all comes
together and not to be a downer, but you
often find out more about the
connections when things go wrong.
>> And have we seen a major accident?
>> We have not seen a big accident yet in
private credit.
>> Private credit firms say they're
insulated from risk because they don't
depend on depositors. and firms are now
pushing to bring these assets to the
public via ETFs and even 401ks.
>> Do you think that this type of
investment can be made more broadly
available? So one of the great things
about the industry is and one of the
things I've loved about it is it's
constantly reinventing itself and
constantly evolving in terms of what is
the most efficient way to provide
capital to an enterprise and that's why
private capital has grown. Now more
people want access to being providers of
that capital and I think this is again
just a part of the natural evolution of
how people access capital. We haven't
opened up that marketplace in a way that
gives a broader community access um
beyond the wealthy. And obviously it
should happen. It's actually happening
indirectly. Retired teachers all over
America participate in plans which
Carile is helping those plans manage
their assets.
>> Do you worry that maybe this industry
could fly away a little bit if there
isn't a bigger set of eyes on it?
>> Do I think we could have a bad credit
cycle? Sure. The question is, is it
systemic in that it actually triggers a
broader crisis? Banks have failed, but
we haven't seen credit funds fail.
Under Schwarz, Carile has continued its
move into private credit, which now
makes up over 40% of its business. And
since 2023, its assets under management
have increased 21%. You have this
private equity business, but you're now
pivoting the company more and more to
these different areas. you've been in
credit for for a while. What do you
think your mark is going to be as a CEO?
>> The trend of private capital, as
significant as we think it is, and you
look back again to 2000 to today, it's
early days for private capital. If you
think about the big trends, demand for
infrastructure, demand for energy, the
demand for defense, and really what's
happening geopolitically, the demand for
private capital will only increase. I'm
also generally an optimist. So I think
industries will grow, investment will
grow, and private capital will just grow
to be a a provider of capital. The
world's kind of an unpredictable place,
but there's a huge amount of
opportunity, and this is a really unique
time to be in private capital.
[Music]
We just interviewed the CEO of Carile,
Harvey Schwarz. In a lot of ways, I
think his story tells a lot about the
direction of the industry. He has one of
the more human stories I have seen as a
CEO. I think a lot of people look at
finance and see people who are at the
top of the biggest companies that we
cover and they don't realize that maybe
they had a very windy path to get there
themselves. Getting a little bit of a
peek at the person behind the big firms
managing all the money would explain a
little bit about how these places work.
And my takeaway is maybe, you know, when
you have a moment of luck in front of
you, the way you use that is what
determines whether you're going to be
successful or not.
[Music]